MacroSheds time series data
Column names and their descriptions


1. datetime

Date and time in UTC


2. site_code

Short name for MacroSheds site. See "Site summary table" under the Data tab at
macrosheds.org for more information.


3. var

The "sampling prefix" and short name for each MacroSheds variable. The sampling
prefix makes up the first two characters of all elements of the "var" column, and
is separated from the short name of the variable by an underscore. The first letter
of the prefix is either "I" or "G", and the second letter is either "S" or "N".
Prefixes can be interpreted as follows:

    I = "installed", referring to data points that were recorded by some kind of
        installed apparatus, e.g. a rain gauge or an in-stream sensor array.
    G = "grab", referring to data points that were collected "by hand", either
        as water samples or manual/visual point measurements.

    S = "sensor", referring to data points that were recorded by an electronic
        device in the field.
    N = "non-sensor", referring to data points that were recorded by a human making
        physical measurements, or as analytical samples in a lab

Note that MacroSheds determines I vs. G automatically using a set of heuristics.
S vs. N is determined from source metadata where possible, and inferred otherwise.
Prefixes may therefore be incorrect in some cases.

For more on MacroSheds variables, see "Variable table" under the Data tab at
macrosheds.org.


4. val

The data value.


5. ms_status

A 0 in this column indicates that the corresponding data point is "clean" by MacroSheds standards.
This means it was not flagged as problematic in any way by the data provider, and
that it passed our QA/QC system. A value of 1 in this column indicates that the data
point is "questionable", meaning the data provider flagged it with a note of mild-to-
moderate concern. We do not include points in our dataset if they are flagged
as "insufficient sample", "sensor out of water", "dead battery", "contaminated sample",
or anything else indicating outright bad data. However, a flag stating e.g. "half
sample volume" or "debris on sensor" would be included in our dataset with an ms_status
of 1. Note that for sequences of points interpolated by MacroSheds, the ms_status value
preceding the interpolated sequence is carried to all interpolated points within the sequence.


6. ms_interp

A 1 in this column indicates that the corresponding data point was imputed by MacroSheds.
Currently, all imputation is done by linear interpolation, except for winter discharge at
McMurdo LTER, where we assume discharge values of 0. In future versions, we will leverage
additional imputation techniques and detail them here.


7. val_err

The uncertainty associated with the corresponding data point. Uncertainty is propagated
through every MacroSheds processing operation... mike will finish this definition
